In this video,
we're going to cover angular environments.
We have a problem in our application,
our Angular app currently
has a Spring Boot URL hard coded.
So in our code for like product service,
we have these hard coded URLs here
for the baseUrl and categoryUrl.
It says localhost:8080,
but the Spring Boot backend
is not even at the location anymore.
The new location is actually at localhost:8443
and it uses the secure protocol of HTTPS.
So technically right now,
if we ran our Spring Boot backend
and our Angular front end,
they actually wouldn't connect.
The Angular app would not be able
to connect to the Spring Boot backend.
Instead of hard coding the URL in the service class,
let's place it in the configuration.
This will eliminate the need
to change multiple references.
Also, we may need to use
a different URL based on the environment,
and this will allow us to easily run our app
if deployed to a different environment or server.
So effectively here,
moving the hard coded URLs
into something similar to a properties file
and also allowing it to run
for different environments.
So here's an example here
using different environments,
so we can have our Angular app communicate
to different Spring Boot backends
in different environments.
So here up top,
we have the Spring Boot app
running in the dev environment.
So it's at localhost:8443.
And then for the QA environment,
we have the Spring Boot app
running on a different server
and different port here, so port 9898.
And then for production,
it's running on our production server
and then running on port 443.
So instead of hard coding
that URL into our service classes,
we'll pull it out into a configuration
properties file type thing
and have it for different environments.
Well, the nice thing here is that
Angular has support for environments
and environment is a name configuration
for your application,
and we can add configurations
for various environments.
Now, when you create a new project
using the Angular CLI tool,
by default it creates the following files.
So there's a directory source environments,
and there's an environment.ts
and an environment.prod.ts.
So the environment.ts is the default environment
and the prod.ts is for the prod environment
or production environment.
Now, this environment.ts file
simply exports this JSON object here.
So environment, production: false,
and then we can add our own
custom environment configs.
And then here at environment.prod.ts,
again, export's this environment JSON object
and we can add our custom config.
So effectively,
something similar to a properties file.
Here, we can give our own name value pairs,
but then it's tied to a given environment
or based on a given environment.
Okay, so let's look at our development process.
So in the first step we're going to
define our configs in an environment file,
then we'll use the environment in our application.
And then finally,
we'll run with a given environment configuration.
Alrighty, step one of defining
the configs in the environment file.
So here's our file, environment.ts.
And we have production: false,
and then we can add our own
custom environment configs.
So here we have luv2shopApiUrl,
we'll give the actual value for that URL
and we could define any name value pairs.
Just like a regular properties file,
you can give any name value pairs,
a similar thing here with setting up
this environment file.
Alrighty, in step two,
we're going to use the environment in an application.
So now productservice.ts,
we simply do an import on environment.
And so that's the environment
from step one that we set up earlier.
Then in our product service class,
when we set up the baseUrl
we reference environment.luv2shopApiUrl,
so that'll basically allow us to access
the value that's defined in the environment.
And then we do a similar thing here
for the categoryUrl.
We simply have environment.luv2shopApiUrl,
and then the rest of the path here,
slash product category.
Okay, with step three,
we're going to run with the environment configuration.
So by default,
there's two environment configurations defined,
default and production.
So if you want to run with the default environment,
you simply just give your command to start the server.
So in this case, npm start,
so that will actually use environment.ts.
If you'd like to run with the product configuration,
then you can simply use npm start
and then you give configuration=production.
And that will actually make use
of the environment.prod.ts.
And behind the scenes,
there's a file that'll actually map
the configuration name
to the actual file name to use,
and we'll get into the details for that later.
You can add custom environments
and give any environment names.
We can have .qa, .betatest, .westcoast.
Additional configuration steps are needed for this
and I'll actually cover this
in some of the upcoming videos.
So don't worry, I got you covered.
Alrighty, this looks pretty good.
Let's go ahead and move into our code
and let's take advantage
of the Angular environment feature.